Story Recapped here.
Today I'm going to explain a drama, horror,
mystery, and thriller film called “The Unborn."
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
On her daily jog during a chilly day, Casey
Beldon, a young woman in her twenties, notices
a glove lying on the road.
From behind, she notices a young boy with
bright blue eyes staring blankly at her, with
one glove missing from him.
The boy suddenly becomes a masked dog, which
Casey follows to the woods.
It leads her to a pile of dried leaves, where
the mask lies, so she digs to find out what
lies below and sees a fragile fetus who opens
its bright blue eyes.
Casey wakes up and realizes that the incident
is only a dream, so she consults her best
friend, Romy, who is very superstitious and
spiritual.
According to Romy, dreaming of a baby is a
symbol of change and renewal, while dreaming
of a dog is weird since dogs, in mythology,
are often seen as messengers of the dead.
However, Casey does not seem bothered by this
and laughs the topic off.
During the night, she is on babysitting duty
for the Newton family’s young boys.
She hears footsteps from upstairs and hears
someone from the baby monitor saying, “look
in the mirror; some people are doorways.”
Alarmed by this, she calls for the kids and
heads upstairs to check upon them.
She sees Matty, the older boy, showing his
baby brother its reflection with a mirror
while whispering phrases to him.
When Casey calls Matty’s attention and demands
him to stop, he attacks her by smashing the
mirror directly on her head before telling
her, “Jumby wants to be born now.”
The parents eventually arrive at the house,
and Casey tells them about the incident.
The mother, Gail, insists on having Casey
checked up at the hospital, but she says that
everything is fine.
Before leaving, she sees Matty still staring
intently from upstairs, so she hurriedly leaves.
Outside, she stumbles upon the same glove
that she dreamt about, which weirds her out.
When she arrives home, she greets her dad,
Gordon, and says goodnight after her long
day.
After getting ready for bed, she turns off
her bathroom lights and hears noises coming
from the medicine cabinet.
She turns the lights on and opens it, but
there is nothing there, so she disregards
it.
While Casey sleeps, the knocking noises from
the medicine cabinet continue as if something
is on the other side.
The following day, Casey makes her breakfast,
and a giant insect comes out of the egg she
cracks, putting her in a state of shock.
As she rinses off the skillet, she sees Matty,
the boy she babysat, from their kitchen window
just standing still.
Already disturbed by the reoccurring sight
of the little boy, she tells Romy, her boyfriend,
Mark, and their other friend Lisa about it.
Mark defends the kid by saying that Matty
doesn’t know what he is doing, while Romy
warns Casey that showing an infant a mirror
is bad luck.
Myths say that newborns aren’t supposed
to see their reflection until they are a year
old, which means that they will die soon.
Mark is unconvinced and makes a joke out of
it.
While she attends class, Casey gets fazed
again and starts seeing the phrase “Jumby
wants to be born now” on the blackboard
and in her notebook.
She tries to focus and snap out of her hallucinations,
but she sees the same insect land on her hand,
causing her to walk out of class.
She takes a shower to help clear her mind,
but she couldn’t help but be bothered by
what is happening around her.
Shortly after, Romy has a conversation with
Casey in the locker, but she realizes that
her eyes are changing in color.
Feeling alarmed, Casey seeks a doctor who
tells her that the condition is heterochromia,
meaning one iris is a different color than
the other.
He explains that it is usually congenital.
It may occur after blunt trauma or an indication
of malignant melanoma.
To be sure, the doctor takes pictures of her
eyes and inserts speculums to keep her eyelids
open.
On their way out, Casey thanks Mark for accompanying
her and says that he could stay the night
at her place.
In the busy streets, she sees the pale blue-eyed
boy from her dream once again, but he disappears
in a split second, leaving her confused.
That night, both of them cuddle in bed while
talking about life, death, and the afterlife.
The topic shifts to Casey’s deceased mother,
Janet, whom she last saw in a mental institution
as a kid.
She remembers seeing her mother, who also
had heterochromia, in such a sad state, looking
like she had given up already.
To this day, Casey still holds a grudge against
her mother for leaving her and her father.
Before going to bed, Casey checks her eye
condition in the mirror and hears the knocking
sounds from the medicine once again.
She checks, but again, nothing is there, so
she heads back outside.
For the second time, she hears noises and
returns to the medicine cabinet, where she
opens it and sees the pale boy.
Her screams alarm Mark, who comes to find
her in the bathroom frightened.
To avoid any further encounters, Casey takes
down her medicine cabinet permanently.
On one of her routine runs, Casey hears a
commotion in the neighborhood, specifically
in the Newton home.
Curiously, she asks another neighbor about
it, to which she replies that the baby stopped
breathing.
She sees the devastated Gail reach out to
her deceased baby, who is being carried out
on a cart.
Weirdly enough, she also sees Matty sitting
by the window, either clueless or unaffected
by the whole situation.
Back at the doctor’s office, her doctor
asks if she has a twin, to which she replies
that she is an only child.
If she had, it would explain why her eye colors
are different because of genetic mosaicism.
When dealing with twins, the placentas become
fused, and a certain amount of blood would
be exchanged back and forth, causing the different
pigmentation in her iris as a result of a
foreign genetic strand.
However, the doctor assures her that her eyes
are healthy, but she could consider seeing
a genetic counselor.
Troubled by her thoughts, Casey seeks answers
from her father right away while he is at
work.
She immediately asks if she has a twin, to
which he replies that she was supposed to
have a twin brother, but sadly he died while
still in the womb because Casey’s umbilical
cord suffocated him.
Taken aback by this, she asks him if it was
the reason for their mother taking her own
life, but he strongly denies her claim.
Gordon tells Casey that although the pregnancy
was too early for the twins to have names,
they did give nicknames, with Casey's twin
brother being Jumby.
Shocked to hear this, she simply breaks into
tears and heads home, where she scours through
family memoirs.
She finds a film reel and a newspaper article
about war survivors with the name Sofi Kozma
underlined.
She also sees a picture of her pregnant mother
looking at her reflection in the mirror, with
the boy just behind her.
To learn more about her twin and her mother,
Casey and Romy go to a nursing home to visit
Sofi Kozma.
From the hallways, they are greeted by Sofi
herself, who seems to be a very welcoming
woman.
In her room, Casey notices a spot in the wall
where it used to have a mirror, and Sofi says
that she had it removed because it bothers
her.
Without further discussions, Sofi immediately
asks Casey if she had a twin as she senses
it in others because she used to have one
herself.
When Casey hands the old lady the article,
she sees the same red bracelet she saw on
her mother the day she passed.
Casey also asks Sofi if she knows her mother
by any chance, but Sofi says she doesn’t.
To be sure, Casey shows her the picture she
retrieved from her home.
When the old lady sees the boy in the picture,
it frightens her and orders Casey and Romy
to get out at that instant.
The old lady’s behavior puzzles the two
girls, and they discuss the incident in the
parking lot.
Romy tries to calm Casey, who is highly paranoid
about Sofi hiding something from her.
She reveals that since the night she babysat
the Newtons, she has been seeing things and
thinks that she is being haunted by someone
who was never born.
With the help of Mark, they use a projector
to play the film she retrieved from her mother's
things and examine its contents.
Both of them see nothing strange about the
film except for the fact that the place shown
is the hospital where Casey’s mother took
her own life.
To forget all about it for a while, they decide
to go to a club and party the night away.
However, Casey is still unable to escape her
visions and sees the boy’s face among the
people in the club.
Still fazed, she goes to the bathroom to freshen
up but ends up throwing up in the toilet where
she sees a vandal of an eye.
It grabs her attention, making her look
through it when insects and blood pour out.
She quickly runs outside, but the door is
locked, and the insects and blood start appearing
from the bathroom sink, and fingers start
coming out from the walls, rendering the situation
in complete chaos.
Casey freaks out, and from one of the bathroom
stalls, her mother appears, reaching out for
her while calling her name.
Her friends come to her rescue and comfort
her until she calms down.
After the disastrous night, Casey dials Romy
through a video call to ask her for some advice.
She tells her best friend that she saw her
mother and expresses her worries about ending
up in the same fate as her.
The superstitious Romy instructs her to put
a pair of scissors under her pillow with the
two points open.
She learned this from her grandmother to keep
evil spirits away.
Desperate for some peace of mind, Casey grabs
a pair of scissors and puts them under her
bed, as instructed by Romy.
This is proven ineffective as Casey sees herself
floating from the ceiling, watching herself
sleep.
Deeply panicked, she sees the boy beside her
in bed, opening her stomach to put himself
in.
She screams and wakes up from the nightmare
to answer a phone call from Sofi, who apologizes
for their recent meeting.
On the phone, Sofi tells her to come back
to the nursing home and reveals that she is
actually Casey’s grandmother.
Still dark out, Casey makes her way to the
nursing home and meets with her grandmother,
who reveals that the boy in the reflection
is her twin brother, Barto, who died in 1944.
With a collection of pictures, she recalls
the time that they were both captives of war.
The military thought that examining twins
could unravel the mysteries of genetics, so
they conducted numerous experiments on the
twins they have captured.
Among the cruel experiments they made was
fabricating blue eyes from brown through painful
eye injections.
The experiments caused blindness, and even
worse, death—a fate that Barto ended up
in.
However, Barto arose from the dead after two
days, but she claims that it was not really
him.
A doorway has been opened, and something else
inhabited his boy—a dybbuk.
It is a dead person’s soul that is barred
from entering heaven, causing it to endlessly
wander around the world of the living and
the dead, trying to find a new body.
Since twins are mirrored images of each other,
they are highly considered as doorways between
the different worlds.
According to Sofi, she killed the spirit that
took over her brother, but it is endlessly
trying to come back into her life since then.
The entity tried to take hold of Casey’s
unborn twin, and when it failed to have him,
it turned its gaze to Casey.
Ever since Casey was born, the spirit has
been circling her life, waiting for the perfect
moment to enter.
Desperate to get rid of it, Casey asks Sofi
how, and her grandmother talks about a Book
of Mirrors, a compilation of rites of exorcism,
and refers Casey to a rabbi named Josef Sendak,
who could be of great help.
Once Casey gets a hold of a copy of the book,
she visits Rabbi Sendak and asks him if he
could read the book written in Hebrew.
He explains that the book is derived from
the Kabbalah, which is a form of Jewish mysticism.
Moments later, Casey informs him that she
needs an exorcism immediately performed on
her.
He brushes the topic away by saying that spirits
aren’t real.
He also adds that what she is asking is beyond
his expertise as he has never performed an
exorcism in his career.
She desperately asks the rabbi to help her
as her life depends on it, but he doesn’t
promise her anything.
As per Sofi’s advice, Casey keeps the protective
necklace given to her, gets rid of all the
mirrors in their home, and puts up chimes
to indicate if a spirit is near.
Meanwhile, Romy drives to meet at Casey's
house when she runs over Matty, who is on
his bike.
In a state of panic, she gets out of her car
to the boy, but to her surprise, Matty stands
up as if he hadn't been hit by a car.
He then tells Romy in a very menacing way:
”He doesn't like you helping her" before
warning her that if she keeps being around
Casey, then he will kill her.
As Romy arrives at Casey’s house, she explains
what happened and notices that her eyes worsen
by the day.
Concerned, she asks Casey if she is okay and
that she will always stay beside her as her
best friend.
Later that night, Casey finds herself in front
of her mother, but she transforms into something
far from natural.
She realizes that it is just a dream and hears
the chimes from downstairs, signaling that
a spirit is near.
At the same time in the nursing home, Sofi
cannot sleep after hearing wind chimes and
tries to turn on the lamp on her bedside,
but to no avail.
She makes her way downstairs with a flashlight
and hears wailing noises from a distance.
In the dark hallway, she notices Eli, the
paralyzed man who also resides in the nursing
home, is awake.
Not paying much mind to him, she goes downstairs
and sees Eli below the staircase, crawling
on all fours as if he is possessed.
His head eerily turns around his neck, and
he chases her endlessly down flights of stairs.
Struggling to move, she finds a closet where
she could hide, but behind her, the boy appears,
making her scream out of fear.
At daybreak, Casey visits the nursing home
but senses that something is amiss by the
number of authorities present.
Making her way upstairs, she eventually sees
her grandmother lying lifeless on the floor.
Another patient hands her a letter, which
should be given to Casey if something might
happen to her.
In the letter, her grandmother tells her that
Casey's mother lost and gave in to the dybbuk.
She also writes that it feeds on fear and
will isolate her from her friends and family.
Meanwhile, at the rabbi’s office, the power
shuts down for unknown reasons, so he grabs
a flashlight and makes his way down the stairs.
At the altar, he sees a growling dog with
its head upside down.
He bravely shouts at it to go away from the
place, and in a matter of seconds, it disappears.
On the video call, Casey and Romy talk about
how Casey should not worry about the spirit
and that her grandmother’s death may be
natural.
Casey says it isn’t and that the spirit
will hurt everyone she loves, and they will
get her when she is helpless.
Romy hears her doorbell ring and leaves her
room to check despite Casey’s protests not
to answer it.
While Romy is not in her room, she catches
a glimpse of the boy in Romy's mirror, so
she calls Mark and tells him to meet her at
Romy's house without any explanation.
The lights go out at Romy’s house as well,
and when she checks the front door, Matty
stands while saying, “the doorway is open.”
The little boy stabs her right after saying
the phrase, making her run upstairs while
he devilishly follows her.
Just as Casey and Mark break a glass door,
Matty’s face transforms into something else,
and she finds Matty standing by Romy’s body.
As a reflex, Mark pulls the kid away, grabs
the knife from him, and is about to attack
the boy when Casey stops him because the spirit
has transferred to Romy’s body.
She twitches around and disfigures her body
before authorities arrive at the scene.
The following day, Rabbi Sendak brings Mark
and Casey to a basketball court where they
are introduced to coach Arthur Wyndham, who
is also a priest that could help them.
To perform the exorcism, the venue should
be at a place that is negative to Casey, so
she opts to be at the mental institution where
her mother lived her remaining days.
Other volunteers come along who are willing
to help as the specific exorcism would require
ten people.
All of them get informed about the methods
and the equipment that they will use during
the procedure.
She lays down in the middle of the now-sacred
circle while the others utter the biblical
phrases.
Moments later, strong winds storm the entire
room while the participants start getting
possessed right before dying on the spot.
Casey moves frantically and gets visions of
all the traumatic incidents that occurred
during the past days, all while the boy is
standing beside her.
The whole room gets trashed in the boy’s
presence, so Mark decides to run away with
Casey, who is in the most danger.
In the middle of the chaos, the boy approaches
Father Arthur and decides to take over his
body.
The priest chases the couple around the dim
hallways of the asylum, but they manage to
hide in a small space.
Unfortunately, the priest grabs Mark from
the other side of the wall, and the two of
them fight, resulting in Mark being able to
bring him down.
A bit relieved, she realizes that the spirit
has transferred to Mark’s body, so she runs
away from him, but he gets a hold of her and
strangles her against the wall.
Casey uses the protective necklace from Sofi
to stab Mark’s neck, and he drops her.
For rescue, the rabbi comes in and continues
to read rites from the book along with Casey.
Mark’s body twitches around as the spirit
is slowly defeated, making him blast back
to the first floor of the building.
The sight of it shatters Casey, and she comes
beside him as he bids his final goodbye.
Days have passed, and the chaos has subsided
for a while.
Noticing some symptoms, Casey takes a pregnancy
test and consults a doctor, finding out that
she is pregnant with twins, and once again
feels a sense of deja vu.